In this tutorial we are going to learn to use build an interactive data dashboard with Tableau. Will assume that you do not have prior background with Tableau. Some understanding of Excel will help. We will build an interactive dashboard and do some data analysis. The data that we'll use today is for an e-commerce store which sells on Amazon.

For simplicity, let us divide our activities in following steps.

1. Connect to the data source. Analyze and understand it.
  
2. Build a simple chart, which is also called as a view in Tableau.
  
3. Add additional charts
  
4. Build a data dashboard. This is a combination of multiple views along with the interactivity.
  
5. Make it presentable. We will dropdown filters, labels, titles and finish our dashboard.
  

Let us dive in. So the data that we step one is connecting to the data and understanding it.

## How to connect data source. Analyze and understand it.

The data that we will use is an eCommerce store called 360Essentials. This store sells on Amazon. They sell a variety of household and home and health related products. They've been selling on Amazon for two years so that's the quantity of the data we have. So let's just go ahead and understand how we will connect to this data, and do some basic analysis. So to do that, the first step is to open tableau. And then you can just drag and drop the Excel sheet into the, into tableau, or you can also use the File menu and connect to that. Let's just go ahead and drag and drop the file. As soon as you do that Tableau will do a quick analysis and show the data. As you can see we have some some some measures measures or measures in Tableau language measures is something that is a numerical data. And then we also have some dimensions of variables things like you know, these are typically categorical variables, and by that. What I mean is, they have discrete values things like, you know, think of gender, think of colors. Think of product names or product category. So, these are going to be our, our dimensions in an in a matrix, which is our numerical variables are going to be things such as product sales refunds. So let's just use those two. Primarily, and then then continue our analysis. So, if you're an e commerce store. One of the first thing you want to know, is the total sales. So let's go ahead and build our first view, which is total sales by month. So, what we want to do is drag the sales metric, and drag it to just double click on that and Tableau will automatically create a basic, basic metric for that basic visualization for that. So we know that what we now seeing is the total sales for the entire data set that we have which is, which is two years worth of data. But that's good but not as, as helpful it will be nice to see the trend by month. So for that, all we really need to do is, is use a sale state. Right. And, but you know the each sale that we have on Amazon has its own date so you know we can even understand the sales date by individual day but in this case we want to summarize it or what is called as rolling up the days to month. So let's see. Let's change this metric from the day or sorry the year to two month. Okay, there you have it. That's our bar chart of sales by month. Now, we want to probably just farm formatting the labels and, and, and that's about it so now. That's very good. It's nice. You know, we can also add some, some ability to do some filtering like let's let's let's let's look at a filter, and by filter What, what, what do you mean you know we just look at a subset of the data. For example, you know we have product categories in three or four product categories. We want to just look at individual having ability to look at zooming into a single product category. So let's add the product category as a filter. And what you're showing you know what Tableau calls is is different, UI elements they called us shelf. So, this is a filter shelf. So all we're going to do is take the product category variable and drag it into the filter shelf, and then click on show filter. And that we know you can change this filter is a drop down like search bar and multiple multi radio buttons, things like that. Let's just use a drop down for now, and like drag this on to the left hand side of the dashboard or the view. So okay there we have it. So we can we have now ability to do pick of product category or select all of them and then you know look at the sales trends by month for for the entire data set. Now, I want to, I think if I'm a seller which products returns, you know if you're a seller on. If an e commerce seller returns are expensive. Because you know, the shipping cost, you know, seller typically ends up paying shipping costs two ways. Because that's that's the expectation that's been said by Amazon like you know you want free shipping but a lot of times users also want free rate and shipping as well. So returns are very expensive. If you're an e commerce seller. So we want to understand which products are are having higher defect rates or return percentages so let's let's try it, how can we do that. So, the metric that we don't really have this readily available but what we have is transaction type. And within that. If we were to filter that transaction type in the amount here is actually negative. So we'll have to also change the amount here because you know sales minus refunds is that is your is your net sales. So this is how this has a negative amount. But in addition to that, you know, the seller also ends up paying the shipping cost and not everything is refunded right away. So, but for now let's just understand, which products have a higher return rate. So how can we find that out. We want to draw up. We want to understand sales or returns divided by sales. So let's create go ahead and create that metric. And then, let's add individual, let's let's first find out at a high level, the product returns by product category and then we can drill down into the individual individual returns borrower. Okay, so that's our return now. So we built our summary sales by month and then we also build the, the returns by category and also by month, the trends. Now let's go ahead and you know like create like a once one final data dashboard where we'll bring all these different metrics and visualizations together. And so for that what. Let's go ahead and create a new dashboard or dashboard is just a combination of multiple like, like, like I explained earlier and with with interactivity between them. So let's bring them together, let's add our sales by month on the top, let's add our returns. And then returns view on the bottom. And now, what kind of metrics, I think we want to give an ability to select the date range. So transaction date. Let's add that code and add that as a filter. Okay, so we go into filters for one of the sheets to do that. But we don't see that. So, so one of the things you know before you can do that. We need to make sure that transaction date has been added. So in our case, we since we are already slicing it all. Both of us by the sales date I think we have it available. So let's go ahead and add the sales date as a filter. Let's make it. Let's make it continuous, so that we can select a date range we can, or let's make it. So one of the things with continuous no date range is you know user has to pick a date, like a start date and end date, another, another quick option is also using relative date so far like last X number of days, months or weeks, so we can let's go ahead for now and let's use relative date. And, but relative date is typically occurred to today. Let's go ahead and change this anchor point. As of, like, end of last year. All right, so, so we built all this in now. Let's also go add product categories. No.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbODYzODUwMjFdfQ==
-->